The house rental issue is one of the elemental parts of society. Nowadays, it is extremely difficult to find suitable accommodation in city areas if people search for it physically. On the other hand, the land owner also needs to rent the house. It can be difficult to find tenants just to hang a lease sign on a building, and as a result, they lose money. An online common platform can play a vital role in this case. The purpose of the study is to develop a common web-based online platform for both tenants and house owners so that both tenants and landowners will mutually benefit from the system. This paper presents the development of web applications for the people of Bangladesh where both house owners and tenants can register and tenants can have houses for rent via sophisticated contact with the house owner. In this paper, a common online-based smart house rental web application has been developed both for tenants and for house owners. This web application is very user-friendly, efficient and it has got many unique features that are not offered by other currently available house rental websites here in Bangladesh. Tenants can register using their phone number, store information about their identity, search for available houses, send messages to house owners, and choose a suitable house using developed web applications. House owners can also register for the system, which will manually verify and authenticate the knowledge provided by the house owner can view a tenant’s information history whenever a tenant makes contact through text and supply house-related information accordingly. The proposed online smart house system has been tested and validated. It works very efficiently with many features. The application provided faster and improved opportunities to get houses, as well as ensuring the availability of houses for rent in the greatest number of areas. The system will help to spread trustworthy services nationwide and supply users with the chance to speak and improve the house rent in Bangladesh. Because it has many smart features, this developed online smart house rental web application will make it very easy for tenants to find a house to rent. House owners, on the other hand, can easily rent out their properties.
